Insecure File Permissions:
/etc/passwd Case Study
Linux passwords are usually
stored in /etc/shadow,
which can’t be read by normal users.
In the past however, password hashes,
along with other account information,
were stored in the
world-readable /etc/passwd file.
For backwards compatibility,
if a password hash is present
in the passwd file user record,
it is considered valid for authentication
and it takes precedence
over the shadow file.
This means that if we can
write into the /etc/passwd file,
we can add a new
password for any account.
Let’s demonstrate this.
In a previous section, we saw
that the passwd file was
writable by any user on the system.
In order to escalate our privileges,
we are going to add another superuser
(root2) and a password
hash to the passwd file.
We will first generate the password hash
with the help of the openssl command
and the passwd argument.
By default, openssl will generate
a hash using the crypt algorithm,
which is supported for
Linux authentication.
Once we have the generated hash,
we will add a line to the passwd
file using the correct format:
The “root2” user and the password
hash in our passwd file entry,
are followed by the user and
the group IDs, both set to zero.
These zero values specify that
the account is a superuser.
Finally, in order to verify that
our modifications were valid,
we use the su command to switch to
the newly created root2 account,
and issue the id command,
to show that we indeed
have root privileges.